---
title: Recent Projects
categories: [linguistics]
comments: true
---

# Discurso Y Dolor (jul 2021- jan 2022) 
In this project, funded by FONDECYT, I was supervised by Prof. Mariana Pascual from the Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile.  
My goal was to study a corpus of interviews with patients diagnosed with endometriosis. The disease causes chronic pain, and takes in average 7 to 10 years to diagnose. This delay is often due to failures in patient-doctor communication.  

Questions that were the basis of the project:
1. What are the patterns that the patients use in discourse? 
2. How can physicians be more precise in early diagnostics through language?
3. Which language resources do patients recur to express their pain?


# Gender Bias In The Careers Of Olympic Athletes (jan 2021- mar 2022)
I was a Research Assistant in this project during my BA in Linguistics at USP, supervised by Prof. Marcos Lopes. It presented two central objectives, 
anchored in the hypothesis that the sports
careers of professional athletes show mishaps
directly related to gender. The main objective
was to understand whether themes such as
pain, career transition, and motherhood are
relevant in differentiating the trajectory of
female athletes.  
To enable this study, computational analyses were made to quantitatively evaluate textual data, since the corpus of the work consists of a set of interviews. This methodology should allow the extraction of the most critical topics in the differentiation of interviews of men and women, besides generating metrics for visualizing such differences.